now the United Nations is flying its
flags at half staff and will observe a
minute of Silence on Monday to honor un
staff killed or wounded in Gaza this was
the scene outside the office in Bangkok
on Friday the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees unra announced that 101 of its
employees had been killed in Gaza since
the start of the war and this is the
United Nations University in Tokyo these
scenes will be repeated at un offices
around the world on on Monday the
organization has confirmed the number of
deaths of its staff is the highest
killed in any conflict since the UN was
formed in
1945 well let's speak to Juliet tumor
who's un's director of communications
she's joining us from occupied East
jerusalm Juliet good to have you with us
again on Al jaer so 101 unra
humanitarian workers killed in the Gaza
Strip since October 7th tell us about
who they were and how your work has been
impacted
yes uh these are our dear colleagues and
our dear friends more than 100 of them
have been killed they were mainly
teachers but also School principles one
doctor a number of Engineers support
staff uh people who were in charge of
safety for example um many many of them
were killed um with members of their
families some were killed um while they
were on their way to bring bread for
their families it's it's a global day of
mour for the United Nations as we
remember those colleagues and we pay
tribute to their service at Andra how
has your work on the ground been
impacted by by these deaths and and the
injuries that your uh colleagues have
sustained this is uh only one challenge
that Andra is facing we're being hit uh
from different directions the war itself
is definitely one challenge the SE
and the tightening of of The Siege and
the restrictions that we have on the
number of trucks that we are able to
bring in very very little no fuel fuel
is running out for Andra the largest
humanitarian agency and then the the
shelters I mean we're close to
800,000 people now taking shelter under
the very same flag that is being lowered
around the world this morning they came
to the those un facilities under
facilities in search for protection and
for safety yeah you you talked about The
Siege and uh the safety o of uh people
who have sought shelter at un schools
schools that have been bombed so what
what is the focus of your work right now
given these uh difficult conditions on
the ground The Siege in in Gaza City The
Siege around hospitals there what are
you focusing on right
now look on our facilities that were
impacted we can confirm that more than
60 6 Z have been impacted most recently
yesterday one of our guest houses where
we have staff sleeping and staying in in
the Gaza Strip um that they received
three direct hits um yesterday morning
and we were very very lucky because it
was just uh an hour and a half after our
staff left that guest house and went to
work so um this is increasing and 70% of
those facilities that were impacted
happened south of w Gaza so in fact in
the middle areas or in areas like kanun
or RA in the South it's an indication
that nowhere in Gaza nowhere is safe not
the north not the middle and not even
the southern areas our Focus right now
is to provide assistance to those
families who came to seek refuge and
protection under the very same un flag
that was lowered this morning yeah as
you say nowhere is safe and many
Palestinians were told to move from the
north to the South for their safety uh I
I know that some of our colleagues had
to move have have your colleagues from
unra also left the Northern parts of
Gaza City and all these areas which are
under heavy bombardment and are now in
the
South yes yes many many of our staff uh
13,000 of them many were forced to flee
as part of the forced displacement of
the Palestinian communities across the
Gaza Strip so they are like the rest of
the communities however they many many
of them are still there many many of
them are still serving and providing to
the communities under very very
challenging circumstances and we also
had staff who were there when the Exodus
happened over the past few days of mass
populations moving forced to flee forced
to flee their homes in Gaza City and in
the north and they reported scenes that
resembled very much the 1948 War people
arrived after walking on foot for hours
dehydrated and exhausted right when you
when you see Juliet what's happened over
the past five weeks the death toll of
more than
11,000 the mass Exodus as you say
newborn babies being removed from their
incubators did you ever imagine it would
reach this level
it's unprecedented on all levels it's
unprecedented not only uh operationally
for us it's extremely challenging but
the death toll the death toll including
among our colleagues and and and staff
at at anra the challenges that we're
facing in terms of the very very tight
Siege the restrictions that we have on
our operations and the fact that we
don't have fuel it's a very simple thing
that we need to have so that we can
drive our cars and trucks and Reach
people with the assistance they need
even that we don't have Juliet thank you
very much for taking the time to speak
to us Juliet tumor is the spokeswoman
for unra the un's refugee Agency for
Palestinians live there in occupied East
Jerusalem